>> Jon Kuperman: So yeah,
let's move into an exercise.
We'll take just a bit of time to do it,
and then we'll just do it all together.
Again, the point is not so
much getting through the challenge,
although you're more than welcome to the
point is to try to get comfortable with
using the debugger.
And so what I tried to do here is I tried
to make a challenge that was a little bit
too hard to solve with
just a few console logs.
Something that would be
really nice to get through.
So if we open up the DevTools here and we
go to Console, this is the starting place,
we can see that we're supposed to get
this list of Pokémon rendering here.
And they're not rendering and
we've got an error here.
And to go through here to click through,
set some breakpoints,
explore a little bit,
see if you can figure out what's going on.
And then we'll meet back and
we will go through the solutions together.
>> Jon Kuperman: All right, cool, yeah,
let's go through this
exercise here together.
So if you go over and view the page,
we can see that there's some Console stuff
wrong, some errors in the Console, and
that we don't have a list
of Pokémon evolutions.
And again, the point here is not
necessarily to get the exercise complete
as much as it is to get comfortable going
from these Console errors into the sources
and adding some break points.
And just in a more complex bug like this
one, making sure that you can kind of at
least check your assumptions and identify
what is working and what isn't working.
So kinda go through first and
click on this link from the Console.
And we can see that we essentially are
trying to call .species on something that
doesn't exist.
So this chain is undefined.
So we can kind of quickly add
a break point above it and
then refresh the page which
will hit the break point.
And we can just verify for
example that chain is in fact undefined.
So if we wanted to see where it was coming
from or why we expected to be there.
Maybe the next thing that we
can use is the call stack.
So we can kinda go up the call stack and
see what's getting passed in.
As we would expect,
evolutionData.chain is undefined.
But if we dig a little
bit deeper into why,
we can see that evolutionData isn't
actually a JavaScript object.
It's in fact,
a JavaScript request response body, sorry.
So it's an HTTP body with type cores and
status 200 things like that.
So we can go in and
kind of mess with the code here and
call to JSON on the fetch
before we try using the data.
So we can come kind of here,
where we've got, are we on line 14?
So we've got this fetch here, and
then we can put then block underneath it,
which does response, response.json.
And I think we've got one here as well
where we can also add a response,
response.json.
So we can go ahead and refresh these,
remove that break point, do a refresh,
look in the Console, and
now we've see we've got a different error.
Basically, we've managed to get through
that one, and we've got some other one.
And so here we're trying to append
child on something that is undefined.
So if we were to go ahead and
set this break point and refresh,
we could see that this evolutionSequence
is actually null, undefined.
So if we scroll up a little bit, we can
kind of see what we're messing with here,
and that we've sort of got this
evolutionSequence, which is here.
It's a getElementById and
the getElementById is looking for
this Pokémon evolutions, which is this
div that we sort of append to things.
And so the problem is, if we go here
instead of break point and do a refresh,
we get this here, and we can see
that thisdocument.getElementById.
Let me go into the Console and
paste that in, is not returning anything.
So if we kinda come here and we see that,
basically we're trying
to append child to this.
And this should be querying this,
but it's not in there, and
it's because we've not stuck
this div into the actual DOM.
You can see here we append
the Pokémon div and
the evolutionSequence div,
sorry, and that's on line 39.
And so the only bit that
doesn't make it into the DOM is
the need to append that list item itself.
And so the list item is
the li that gets created and
that needs to get appended
to the Pokémon list element.
>> Jon Kuperman: And so we'll do
the list element, append the list item,
we can remove this breakpoint for now.
And we can come back here and we should
now see that we've got things created
memory, appended to the DOM, and
the API is working correctly.
And you get this cutesy little
list of Pokémon evolutions.
So again, I think there's not the focus
on the specifics of the bug, but more so
hopefully expanding the tool set that you
have when things aren't working correctly.
Instead of just console logging
out the errors, taking a second,
pausing, being able to go up and down
the call stack, check your assumptions.
Eventually finding what things
you're relying on being defined that
are undefined.
And from there, using your own
understanding of your application to fix
the business logic itself.
How's everybody feeling about
the debugger part of that in general?
Reasonable, yeah, it gets a bit heavy.
I am not on any type of mission to
convince people not to console log,
I think console logging is
an incredibly powerful thing.
If it's a fast feedback loop,
that's excellent.
I think we've all been on projects,
for an example,
if you have a project that
takes a long time to build.
Console logging might be really
frustrating, where you forgot to add a log
to a few areas and now you've built and
you have to wait on us.
So maybe that's the time to reach for
it or
maybe you've got a lot of errors going on.
And what you really need
is just a better understanding
of how the application works.
Maybe even you still use
console logging to fix it, but
you can use some breakpoints just to learn
about your own application, how it works,
what's in scope, check things like that.
So I'm not prescriptive about how you
debug, but it's nice knowing that these
tools are there that they can buy and
provide a robust amount of information.
And in some cases, they can be
a lot more helpful, particularly,
I think the slow build.
We've all been there where we
forgot to log in a certain case,
then we have to rebuild
our whole app again, so.
>> Speaker 2: Are there ever cases, or
is it possible to persist the code
changes in the Sources panel?
Or do you have to set up the workspace
in DevTools, doesn't it?
>> Jon Kuperman: You'd have to set up
the workspace to persist those and
[COUGH] it struggles a lot
with a lot of build tools.
Some things will work okay, like if you
have, for example, if you have like SAS or
SCSS as your whole build step, Chrome
DevTools will persist those changes.
It's okay with those, but once you get
into, if you've got like Web Pack or Veat,
or like any of those,
then you'll probably lose that.